.TH decimate 1  "January, 2018" "version 0.5" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
Decimate \- a fault-tolerant scheduler SLURM extension
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
dbatch  [ any SLURM options ]
        [ \fB\-\-check <user_script>\fR ]
        [ \fB\-\-max-retry=<number of restart>\fR ]
        script [args...]
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION

Developped by the KAUST Supercomputing Laboratory (KSL),
\fBDecimate\fR is a
framework written in python designed to handle dependent jobs more
easely and efficiently.

\fBDecimate\fR transparently adds to SLURM commands to check the
correctness of jobs and automitically reshedules jobs found faulty.

Using \fBDecimate\fR on Shaheen II, one can submit, run, monitor or
terminate a workflow composed of dependent jobs. If asked, thanks to
standardized or customized messages, the user will be informed by mail
of the progress of its workflow on the system.

In case of failure of one part of tne workflow, \fBDecimate\fR automatically
detects the failure, signals it to the user and launches the
misbehaving part after having fixed the job dependency. By default if
the same failure happens three consecutive times, \fBDecimate\fR cancels the
whole workfow removing all the depending jobs from the scheduling. In
a next version, \fBDecimate\fR will allow the automatic restarting of the
workflow once the problem causing its failure has been cured.

\FBDecimate\FR also allows the user to define his own mail alerts that can
be sent at any point of the workflow through a call to a python
method. This feature will also be available from bash in a next
version.

Some customized checking functions can also be designed by the
user. Their purpose is to validate if a step of the workflow was
succesful or not. It could involved checking for the presence of some
result files, grepping some error or success messages in them,
computing ratio or checksum... These intermediate results can be
easely transmitted to \fBDecimate\fR validating or not the correctness of
any step. They can also be forwarded by mail to the user where as the
workflow is executing.


.
.SH USE
.PP


At this moment, jobs only need to be submitted as
.PP
.BI "   dbatch [ SLURM options ]  \-\-check=\fISCRIPT_FILE\fR \-\-max-retry=\fIMAX_RETRY\fR"
.PP
\fBdbatch\fR accepts the same parameters as the
original SLURM sbatch command plus the new parameters
.PP
\fB--array--check\fR=\fISCRIPT_FILE\fR points to a python or shell script to
check if results are ok. This script is systematically called at the
end of each job of the workflow.
.PP
\fB--max-retry\fR=\fIMAX_RETRY\fR sets the number of times a step can fail
and be restarted automatically before failing the whole workflow (3 per default)
.PP
\fBsslog\fR tails out the decimate logging file attached to the
current directory, tracking all the jobs that were launched
with dbatch from this directory.
.PP
\fBsstatus\fR gives the current status of the workflow excecuting
in the current directory.
.PP  
\fBDecimate\fR is still in a beta phase and under test with some of our KSL
users. More documentations will be provided once the stabilized and fully tested
version will be made available.


If interested in testing \fBDecimate\fR or contributing, please send a
mail to help@hpc.kaust.edu.sa



.SH AUTHOR
Written by Samuel Kortas (samuel.kortas (at) kaust.edu.sa)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report Decimate bugs to help@hpc.kaust.edu.sa
.br
Decimate home page: <https://bitbucket.org/kaust_KSL/decimate>
.br
KAUST Supercomputing Laboratory: <http://hpc.kaust.edu.sa/>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2018 KAUST Supercomputing Laboratory
License LGPLv3+: GNU LGPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
A first light presentation of  \fBdecimate\fR has been given by Samuel Kortas during
the KSL Workshop entitled 'Boost your efficiency when dealing with
multiple jobs on the Cray XC40 supercomputer Shaheen II' held at KAUST
On Sunday June 5th 2016. The workshop slides can be freely downloaded from
<https://www.hpc.kaust.edu.sa/sites/default/files/files/public/many_jobs.pdf>
.PP
ktf(1) breakit(1) distar(1)
